docs: add migration guide for vs17.14 one-click f5 (#12847)
MicrosoftDocs/msteams-docs: msteams-platform/toolkit/teams-toolkit-migration-guide_1714.md

---

> title: Migrate Teams Toolkit project to 17.14+ version

Reviewer: The title can be "Migrate project from 17.13 to 17.14+"
<img width="283" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b66b3643-8b0b-445e-80f2-af9882eb2244" />

Reviewer 2: Updated

author: huihuiwu

> description: This guide provides the steps to migrate from scaffolded template to the new project structure in Microsoft Teams using Teams Toolkit.

Reviewer 3: using Teams toolkit or M365 Agents toolkit?

Author: I was thinking doc team will rename these together. Anyway, I can update in this PR.

Reviewer 2: Update reflects

> description: This guide provides the steps to migrate from scaffolded template to the new project structure in Microsoft Teams using Teams Toolkit.

Reviewer 2: Updated

ms.author: huihuiwu
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.topic: overview
ms.date: 13/05/2025
---

> # Migrate Teams Toolkit project from to 17.14+ version

Reviewer 3: Wrong sentence "from"

Reviewer 2: Updated

> # Migrate Teams Toolkit project from to 17.14+ version

Reviewer: The Header here should be :
"Migrate Teams Toolkit projects from VS 17.13 or lower version VS 17.14+ version"

Reviewer 2: Updated

> One-click F5 has been implemented in Teams Toolkit for Visual Studio v17.14 to enhance local debug experience and reduce F5 failure rate. The new debug experience introduces two debug profile types.

Reviewer 3: Teams Toolkit or M365 Agents Toolkit?

Reviewer 2: Updated

Reviewer 4: No, it should Teams toolkit in this context

> One-click F5 has been implemented in Teams Toolkit for Visual Studio v17.14 to enhance local debug experience and reduce F5 failure rate. The new debug experience introduces two debug profile types.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
One-click F5 has been implemented in Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit (previously known as Teams Toolkit) for Visual Studio v17.14 to enhance local debug experience and reduce F5 failure rate. The new debug experience introduces two debug profile types.
```

> - **Microsoft Teams (browser)**: Default debug profile which will run prepare Teams App dependencies step to update if there're any changes before launching Teams

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Microsoft Teams (browser)**: A default debug profile that runs to prepare Teams App dependencies step to update if there are any changes before launching Teams.
```

> - **Microsoft Teams (browser) (skip update app)**: A quick-to-launch debug profile which will skip prepare Teams App dependencies step and launch Teams directly

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Microsoft Teams (browser) (skip update app)**: A quick-to-launch debug profile that skips to prepare Teams App dependencies step and launch Teams directly.
```

> If you're debugging your project for the first time or after making some modifications, you should choose the `Microsoft Teams (browser)` debug profile. If you have prepared Teams App dependencies before and want a quick launch without changes, you should choose the `Microsoft Teams (browser) (skip update app)` debug profile.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If you're debugging your project for the first time or after making some modifications, you must choose the `Microsoft Teams (browser)` debug profile. If you've prepared Teams App dependencies before and want a quick launch without changes, you must choose the `Microsoft Teams (browser) (skip update app)` debug profile.
```

## Prerequisites

Before starting the migration process, ensure that you have the following:

> * A Teams project with new project structure that is created using Teams Toolkit for Visual Studio 17.13 or earlier version.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* A Teams project with new project structure that is created using Agents Toolkit for Visual Studio 17.13 or earlier version.
```

* Visual Studio version 17.14 or later.

## Migration process

Perform the following steps to migrate to one-click F5 experience:

1. Open `Configuration Manager` window by clicking **Build** > **Configuration Manager...** in VS.

> 2. In `Configuration Manager` window, check the `deploy` stage for M365Agent/TeamsApp project so prepare Teams App dependencies will be executed when deploying.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
2. In `Configuration Manager` window, check the `deploy` stage for M365Agent/TeamsApp project for prepare Teams App dependencies to be executed when deploying.
```

>   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-overview/debug_check_deploy.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the configuration manager window.":::

Reviewer 5: Please fix the alignment.
<img width="472" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/19d0974a-d8f7-4eaa-af8d-6603d4aa6e92" />

Reviewer 2: updated

> 3. (Optional) Create **Microsoft Teams (browser) (skip update app)** debug profile. You could follow **Microsoft Teams (browser)** debug profile to add following contents:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
3. (Optional) Create **Microsoft Teams (browser) (skip update app)** debug profile. Follow **Microsoft Teams (browser)** debug profile to add following contents:
```

   In `launchSettings.json` under M365Agent/TeamsApp project, add following contents:

   ```json
      "Microsoft Teams (browser) (skip update app)": {
        "commandName": "Project",
        "environmentVariables": { "UPDATE_TEAMS_APP": "false" },
        "launchUrl": "https://teams.microsoft.com/l/app/${{TEAMS_APP_ID}}?installAppPackage=true&webjoin=true&appTenantId=${{TEAMS_APP_TENANT_ID}}&login_hint=${{TEAMSFX_M365_USER_NAME}}"
    },
   ```

>    In `{{solutionName}}.slnLaunch.user` file at the same level as the solution file, add the content according to the files of `launchSettings.json`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   In `{{solutionName}}.slnLaunch.user` file at the same level as the solution file, add the content according to the files of `launchSettings.json`:
```

Reviewer 2: updated

   ```json
    [
      {
        "Name": "Microsoft Teams (browser) (skip update app)",
        "Projects": [
          {
            "Path": "M365Agent\\M365Agent.atkproj",
            "Name": "M365Agent\\M365Agent.atkproj",
            "Action": "StartWithoutDebugging",
            "DebugTarget": "Microsoft Teams (browser) (skip update app)"
          },
          {
            "Path": "tab\\tab.csproj",
            "Name": "tab\\tab.csproj",
            "Action": "Start",
            "DebugTarget": "Start Project"
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
   ```

> 4.  If your project contains debug profile for Microsoft 365 Agents Playground, you'll need to add following environment variable in `launchSettings.json` under M365Agents/TeamsApp project:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
4. If your project contains debug profile for Microsoft 365 Agents Playground (previously known as Teams App Test Tool), you'll need to add following environment variable in `launchSettings.json` under M365Agents/TeamsApp project:
```

Reviewer 5: Please fix the alignment.
<img width="483" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/05b60b8a-7241-4014-b865-98b0feb79d36" />

Reviewer 2: fixed
